# 20210412

Attendees:

* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* CRob (Red Hat)
* Vinod Anandan (Citi)
* Dave Russo (Red Hat)
* Björn Kimminich (OWASP)
* Matt Rutkowski (IBM)
* Ryan Ware (Intel)
* Beth White (Codethink)
* Glenn ten Cate (SKF)
* Azeem Shaikh (Google) 

Meeting Notes:

**Project Updates**

edX Course

*  NOW IN MARKDOWN! (And there was much rejoicing - yay.)

SKF

* Working with CRE Inventory project.  Want to use references with/in other OWASP projects
* Doing small updates in the coming weeks.  New welcome messages refers to EXD course
* Thinking about leveraging course’s markdown files in SKF?  “Would you like to learn more?” links.  David & Glenn to chat more.

CII Best Practices Badge

* Added new criterion, “maintained”: “The project MUST be maintained.” It’s very unusual to add a new criterion outside the yearly cycle, but this criterion was always implied, & it doesn’t risk existing badges because the default value is “Met”. There are a few projects whose maintenance has ceased, and we needed a way to justify removing their badge.
* That process revealed a few problems in criteria changed (because we haven’t done that in a while), which have now been fixed.
* Created a script to modify project data from the command line (using data in JSON format). That was harder than you might expect because you need to prove you’re authorized.

Inventory

*  Working with SKF team to integrate data
* _“**Mapping finalisation**_

    _In the meantime we are finalising the mapping structure  for you to review and we're working on the technical integration._


    _We already have a big mapping with top 10, asvs, pro-active controls, CS, 800-63b, 800-53 and higher-level concepts. Work to include WSTG is underway. We're working on that through Elie._


    _I have put an SIG team together to further review and finalize the mapping structure to get it to a 0.9 end of next week (April 16), ready for the top 10 team to review. Availability of the top 10 team after April 16 for review is therefore important._


    **_Scenarios_**


    _Scenario 1: the Top 10 uses links to a CRE refer page, running at SKF. The page takes a CRE id and shows all the links from the mapping database. This is the prefered scenario that we're aiming for._


    _Scenario 2: the Top 10 at first uses links to static html pages that the CRE team prepares with the same content as in scenario 1. It is nice to have this plan B because going live does not depend per se on integration of the refer functionality in the SKF infrastructure. _


    _Scenario 3: the Top 10 team is not able to go ahead in time with the CRE because of mapping quality issues. I think this is unlikely since we are not bound by anything content-wise so we have the freedom in a combined effort to finalize the mapping, exactly how the Top 10 team wants it._


    _Let's go for scenario 1, and when we can't get the refer pages to work in time, we can temporarily go live using scenario 2 - provided that the mapping is okay - for which we have our finalisation process as mentioned_


    **_Stability_**


    _It is clear that the Top 10 team requires stability in the CRE, meaning that the topics/requirements that each top entry links to will not change. Stability in CRE is being dealt with in multiple ways:_

1. _Forever-links: Links will always keep working: this is one of the key reasons of the CRE initiative_
2. _Standard-independence: CRE entries are independent of standards. There is for example an entry called "Encryption of regulated personal data at rest". It is inspired by a check in ASVS, but when ASVS 6 decides that this entry needs to be removed or substantially changed, the CRE entry will remain the same and only the link from ASVS to CRE will change. Suppose ASVS combines all checks about encryption of data at rest in one check, then that check will have to refer to three CRE's: Encryption of health data at rest, Encryption of personal data at rest, and encryption of financial data at rest._
3. _Snapshots: Occasionally CRE entries will change because of new consensus in the industry. We want it to still  be an option to stick to a certain snapshot in time, for those situations where you don't want anything to change - even if there are new insights. The snapshot or version of the CRE can be provided as an argument in the link. Without that argument, the latest CRE content will show._

    _I will reach out to Torsten separately to discuss taxonomy trees and structure in a separate call._


    _Does our approach to stability meet the needs of the Top 10 team? Are there any other issues we need to discuss in this stage? Does the approach regarding the scenarios make sense and could the Top 10 team update us on their planning, so we can take that into account in the finalisation process and agree on some next steps and dates?_


    _Please find attached the CRE explanation document, with at the end a new section that shows a preliminary example of how the top 10 can link to CRE._


    _For a webinar on CRE, see: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnUR08LOFO0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnUR08LOFO0)_


    _Best regards,_


    _Rob van der Veer_


    _on behalf of the CRE team”_


Scorecard

* Azeem is working on scaling Scorecard, reporting dependencies are/are not in scorecard

Project Next Steps:

* If this/then that-style playbook
* Develop learning paths for outcome-based learning?
    * What are the learning paths we’d like to address?
        * I’d like to know why security is important
        * I need to learn how to write more secure software
        * I need to choose more secure open source software, how can I find out about that?
* “Why” resources - whitepaper, cheat sheets
* OpenSSF does have a website, we probably can make a reasonable page there

We could have a “Get Started” button on the OpenSSF web page, pointing off to a specific web page that will help maintainers/contributors get started in securing their OSS. That page on openssf.org could have something like this:

PROPOSAL:

On OpenSSF &lt;openssf.org> main page, at the top to the right of “Get Involved” is another button labelled “Get Secure”. This would link to &lt;[https://openssf.org/get-secure/](https://openssf.org/get-secure/)> with the following content:

Welcome! This page links to key resources to help you develop, select, and deploy more secure software. It focuses on helping maintainers and contributors to open source software (OSS), and those who select OSS, but others may also find it useful. This page _only_ links to resources that are ready to use; if you want to help develop more, please [get involved in the OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/getinvolved/).

* Why should I develop secure software? [to be developed, short presentation]
* Training
    * [Secure Software Development Fundamentals Courses (edX courses)](https://openssf.org/edx-courses/). These OpeSSF courses provide an introduction to the fundamentals of developing secure software. The content is free (you can earn a certificate for a fee). It does NOT require programming or labs, so it’s a fast way to get started.
    * [Security Knowledge Framework (SKF)](https://owasp.org/www-project-security-knowledge-framework/). These OWASP materials provide an introduction to developing secure software. This DOES have programming labs, which can provide greater insight but takes more time.
* [CII Best Practices badge](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org). This allows OSS projects to show that they follow best practices. All OSS projects should try to pursue at least the “passing” badge.
* [OpenSSF Security tool guide](https://github.com/ossf/wg-security-tooling/blob/main/guide.md). It’s important to add security tools to your project’s Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline; the guide provides some information on doing that.
* Best Practices guides - [to be developed, it’d probably be on the GitHub OpenSSF Best Practices in markdown so we could easily edit it] these are a set of technology-specific guides on how to develop higher-quality and/or secure software in those technologies. We emphasize guides on developing secure software, but in some cases the distinction is not sharp.
