# Regular meeting - March 23, 2020

## What happened since the last meeting?



*   Xavier: Alignment with the Tooling Working Group
    *   In our inventory project, there will be resources but also potentially tools. Once we start building this inventory, we’ll make sure to also get inputs from the Tooling WG.
    *   As part of our learning platform, we value the tools that automatically run checks of the secure code practices in the Pull Requests, as they provide a “learning on the job” approach. This is a criteria that the Tooling WG will take into account when they create their tools inventory and decide which one to focus on.
*   Björn: Learning Platform Ideas
    *   see [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KQ8bT87A0X2wJ9GNwSOz7nJwSK70symA4hs-nFLw8dE/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KQ8bT87A0X2wJ9GNwSOz7nJwSK70symA4hs-nFLw8dE/edit)
    *   Who will build the platform?
        *   Take advantage of existing platforms?
            *   Plug-in the existing courses (Juice, SKF labs, GitHub Learning Lab ...)
        *   But it’s gonna be really hard to incorporate any course into an existing platform - It needs changing the API of the existing ones to match the contract that we need for the courses we want to plug in
        *   Building the platform ourselves from scratch give us flexibility
    *   Riccardo can contribute on the platform with the experience of SKF (reusable knowledge about deployment of the courses into Kubernetes cluster)
        *   Not reuse the complete platform, but the core functionality can be reused. Good starting point for the platform.
    *   **We need a dedicated development / ops resource to build and maintain this platform**
        *   Open source projects with enough contributors. 
        *   The coalition companies could take up the challenge to contribute and maintain this project
        *   We should also reach out to the open source community
        *   Start with a core (from coalition companies) and then reach out to the community 
        *   Or we get funds and hire 
        *   And who will be the owner organisation of the project?
    *   Liked the badge system, gives incentives to learner
        *   Post MVP: integrate learning badges with security assessment badges on projects committed (something to signify learning vs real world application)
*   Elie: Vulnerability Disclosure Cheat Sheet - Shared with the Vulnerability Disclosure WG, waiting for feedback from their side.


## Concerns



*   Involvement of “Companies” - Why commercial product focus and not Open Source?
    *   Commercial products can work against us
    *   We don’t want to compete with other companies, who will see us as a threat 
    *   Best case is that we can instead give visibility to these other companies if we integrate their tools into our offer
    *   It would be easier if we focus on the open source projects - There are many of them
    *   If we focus only on the integration of existing courses, then we won’t be seen as competition. 
    *   No commercial should be interested in building a meta-platform integrating the courses of their competitors, so the threat is not that big.
    *   The platform must not be an OWASP project, and serve as a lead generator
    *   It makes sense to start with only open source projects as part of the courses we plug in
*   Neutrality of this working group - Leftover from last meeting
    *   We don’t want to push forward or resell any type of product
    *   At best open source, at least free for open source projects
    *   Being discussed in Steering committee 


## Actions



*   Setup the collaboration environment (Drive Folder, Trello Board, anything else?) - _Xavier, Elie_
*   Brainstorm the possible learning platform architecture
*   Adapt the Learning platform stories and MVP to address the feedback and concerns discussed above (integration of only open source courses, start with integration of existing courses, ...)
*   User stories for inventory
*   Reach out plan (through students, social media, etc.)


## Next meeting?



*   2 weeks, this slot or 1h later

